Master Maharajana said in one of his films, again teaching, known as "Garlan of the Precious Jew",
this is a Madhima text.
In that text said, in order to reach the enlightenment of Buddhahood, we need two things, wisdom
and devotion.
Wisdom and devotion, that is so important, crucial to reach the enlightenment, because with all the
wisdom, we cannot really dispel the ignorance.
In the mind, the antidote of the ignorance is wisdom. The wisdom is so powerful that this wisdom
will dispel the ignorance.
But even these two are so important, but then witches have to go first, and Maharajana said, first,
even these two first have to go with devotion.
Without the devotion, you won't open the eye of the wisdom's absence, and then you will be
completely closed.
So therefore, devotion even goes first, then the wisdom. So that means, you have to activate the
devotion, and then put your wisdom,
which is what remains meditation, practices, and then maintain it on the uyub, like as the Dzokhin
or the Madhyamaka uyub.
So therefore, the devotion is again, the nature of devotion is joy and appreciation.
When you have the devotion, there is also joy for effort comes, so easily, and there is.
Without that, then almost our wisdom is closed, our wisdom is sleeping.
So therefore, this devotion is again the great mass, Maharajana said, they have to go first, even
before the wisdom.